Hey friends, we appreciate you
the listener, and I hope
you appreciate our sponsors because
they make Hansel minutes possible.
Today's first sponsor is Melissa.
Are you looking to build
real time contact data, validation,
and enrichment into your applications?
Try Melissa's developer portal. You'll
gain easy access to flexible
APIs for global address verification,
phone IP address, email and
property and business data sample
code and get post methods.
Plus technical documentation are all
included. Quick. Online payment makes
rapid application development easy. Please
visit melissa.com/developer or call 1-800-MELISSA.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman.
This is another episode of
Hansel minutes today. I'm talking
with EAA Dario Kuhn. She's
calling in from Legos, Nigeria.
How are you? Hey, Scott.
I'm really great. So you
are a front end developer.
You're a UX UI designer.
You work for IO out
of Legos, but you also
have degrees in experimental psychology
and law art. Did you
become a lawyer and then
become a developer? Or how
did that happen? Yeah, this
is something people always ask
me. I actually never practiced
either psychology or law. I
studied psychology as my undergrad,
then I wasn't ready for
the real world. So I
decided, okay, let me do
another degree. And I decided
to do law cause I
found it interesting. And while
I was doing law is
kind of when I discovered
that programming and like front
end development was an actual,
real job that people do.
So I was like, wow,
this is something I kind
of have to pursue. Cause
it's I hadn't been doing
it kind of as a
hobby since I was a
teenager. So I just decided
once I graduate, I'm going
to try and go for
it. So I never actually
practiced, but I like to
call myself a psychologist slash
lawyer slash developer. That's pretty
amazing. And I would think
though, that being a UX
and UI focused developer, that
understanding psychology would be a
helpful, helpful thing. Yeah. When
people ask, I usually say,
Oh, I don't think it
actually helps me at all,
but the more I've thought
about it, I think it
actually does kind of help,
especially just being able to
empathize a bit more with
the user and just kind
of the whole concept of
user research and just trying
to kind of understand the
user's perspective a bit more.
I think it's helped because
I know how to do
studies with other human beings.
I've done that kind of
thing before. So I think
that aspect has helped me
Yeah. The soft skills and
the hard skills. Yeah, exactly.
So one of the things
that I wanted to talk
to you about is this
concept that I'm seeing a
lot of online, I'm hearing
about the next billion users.
And I want to understand
what exactly that means. Yeah.
So the next billion users
is a term I heard,
I think it was at
Google IO last year for
the first time. So it
was essentially as far as
I know, coined by Google.
And if you think of
a company like Google, for
example, like over the last,
I don't know, 20 years,
however long the internet has
been a real thing. The
users of any major product
like Google or whatever products
were available were mainly just
people, mainly people in like
Western countries and people who
were rich enough to have
access to a computer and
access to the internet. So
if you think about that
kind of user base, as
compared to now, it's completely
different because it was a
very, very narrow user base.
But like I said, if
you compare that to now,
it's almost a completely different
story. You have so many
more people coming online from
so many different countries, so
many different just walks of
life, essentially. So I think
the whole next billion users
concept is kind of acknowledging
this shift in user base
and acknowledging that there's a
whole new set of people
who are just coming online
or just really getting comfortable
online that are going to
be using these products that
were previously pretty much only
built for that previous narrow
user base. So it's just
about changing your mindsets and
thinking about who your users
actually are because chances are,
if you built a product
five, 10 years ago, you're
building it for a completely
different user base than exists
today. Yeah. The first billion
users, I guess there's about
3 billion people that like have
smartphones, but the first billion
people probably were like, like
me, they got online 20
plus years ago, we got
on via AOL America online
or dial up. And the
next billion will probably be
not in, in Portland or
New York or in London, but
in, in South America or
in Southeast Asia or in
Africa and there'll be on
a smartphone, won't they? Yeah,
that's actually a really good
point. The whole shift in
mobile versus desktop as well,
like even five years ago,
it was pretty much when
you're building a site or
building anything. It's mainly for
people sitting down at a
desk, but now you have
to build for people who
are on the go or
people who are just managing
their entire lives through like
a four inch screen or
however big their smartphone is.
So it's really, it's like
a huge shift really in
the way that we have
to think about how we're
building products, Blog posts about
the next billion users that
on Google says that these
billion users are already starting
to change the internet. Then
you point out this mobile
only mindset. Like they don't
have computers at their, at
their home. They don't have
a laptop of any kind.
I don't know if I
can say, Oh, they don't
have a computer, but I
can speak of my experience
of seeing a lot of
people here in Nigeria. A
lot of people I personally
see their main device is
their mobile device. Maybe they
have a tablets, but their
main device is their mobile
device. And one of the
main reasons for that is
because we struggle a lot,
especially in Nigeria because we
have a lot of government
issues. We struggle a lot
with power. So having something
like a laptop that is,
I mean, compared to a
mobile phone or a tablet
is much more dependent on
like a power source is
a lot more unreliable than
just having a mobile phone
that you can like carry
around with you. And it
lasts for longer than like
a laptop or like a
desktop would like you can't
even use a desktop because
it would be too reliant
on power. So I think
that's one of the reasons
why a lot of people
tend to focus on mobile
devices. But obviously another reason
is that it's a lot
cheaper. And for the things
that the average person wants
to do, someone that's not
like a developer like myself
that is trying to do
something that's really, really heavy
on processing and all the
fat. So the average president
that just wants emails and
Facebook and WhatsApp, there's no
need to have a whole
computer. You can just do
all of that from your
phone. So that's why I
think that's a lot for
a lot of people, their
first device and maybe their
only device is going to
be a mobile device. So
even if they do have
a laptop, it probably wouldn't
be their primary device, unless
they are like a working
professional that needs that as
their primary device. Interesting. That's
a really interesting way to
put it. It's not that
they don't necessarily have a
laptop or have access to
a computer. It's not their
primary device. And that's funny
that you say that because
even though I'm sitting here
and we're both chatting to
each other on computers, I
probably spend as much time
if not more on my
phone. So one could argue
that my, my iPhone is
my primary device. Yeah. That's
actually a really good point.
I didn't think of it
that way because I mean,
if you asked me to
do 24 hours without my
phone or 25 hours without
my laptop, you would probably
say I need my phone.
So I think for a
lot of people, it is
their phone. Their phone is
the primary device. Even if
like, like you or me,
they primarily work on their
laptop. So it's actually, it's
actually, you're right. It's not
that like specific to the
next billion users that their
mobile device with the primary
device. And if you think
about it, you're doing more
and more things on your
phone like previously, I mean,
you wouldn't have even imagined
doing things like email on
your phone because it might've
been too difficult to type
in or something like that.
But now, I mean, I
think we all do things
more and more important things
on these smaller mobile devices,
Which is interesting because I
still don't see in, in
least in the, on the
websites that I go to
a mobile first mindset, we've
been hearing mobile first now
for quite a few years.
But you know, if I
go visit like my favorite
news site for tech, which
is the verge, it's like
a seven or eight megabytes
just for the homepage and
most of it's JavaScript and
fat PNGs. Yeah. And I
mean, I think I am
definitely still a bit like
guilty of this myself. It's
almost as if us, as
the developers, the people making
all of this online content,
it's like almost like we're
in denial about, about the
fact that most people are
now kind of shifting to
mobile and we just kind
of want to serve this
desktop feel. And like I
said, I'm definitely a bit
I'm guilty of this myself.
I mean, when I'm trying
to design something, I love
designing desktop first, even though
I know that mobile is
probably going to be the
most important in a lot
of situations, but I think
every people are becoming more
and more aware and the
whole mobile first thing is
definitely has taken, has really
taken off and more people
are, even though they might
not be putting as much
weight on mobile assets reserves,
they're definitely putting a lot
more than they used to.
It seems like it is
an exercise in empathy. Like
I would assume given that
I'm here on the West
coast of the U, the
U S and I have
a nice big computer and
a fast bandwidth that, that
you era in Nigeria would
be seeing people living a
mobile first lifestyle so that
you would naturally design that
way, but you also have
fast internet and a nice
big computer and I'm nice
big monitor. So you can
catch yourself being desktop first
and, and being high bandwidth
first, even though you are
closer to the, the next
billion users. Yeah, exactly. I
think it's actually more because
obviously as a developer, most
of my world is still
online. Like when I'm talking
about all my colleagues or
people I interact with in
my working environment, they're mostly
people all around the world.
So it can be easy
to think in their mindsets
rather than think in the
mindset of, Oh, I'm building
a product specifically for people
in this country. And I
dealt a lot with this
in my previous job where
I worked with the media
company here based in Nigeria.
And I think the biggest
shock for me when I
was working there was when
I realized that like quite
a significant percentage of people
were using opera mini browser.
So that really freaked me
out because if like, for
people that don't know, opera
mini is very, it's a
very stripped back browser. So
there are so many things
like JavaScript or CSS features
that just basically don't work.
So I mean, what I
would suggest to everyone is
to kind of just download
opera mini on their phone
and just open up whatever
site they're currently working on
in that browser. And I
guarantee you you'll like gasp,
cause I definitely did. I
was like, Whoa. And that
was kind of, kind of
a shock for me. And
it kind of just shocked
me back into reality and
realizing, Oh, I can't just
be building for people who
have the phone that I
have. I need to think
more about the actual users.
And that's kind of where
the whole empathy thing plays
into. Yeah. Opera mini is,
it's funny. You bring that
up because that's something that
I have not thought about
in many, many years, but
I think it's worth both
of us pointing out that
the next billion users, it's
not necessarily a euphemism for,
Oh, there'll be a billion
Africans or a billion Asians
or billions South Americans suddenly
on online and the Western
people should start thinking about
it. There are a billion
new users coming on that
are from all over the
world. My brother, as an
example, lives in rural Oregon.
He just recently got internet
there because he can't get
fiber. There's no cable there.
So he actually has a
cell phone connection. That's sitting
on top of his roof
on his barn and then
that puts wifi out. But
he only has a three
gigabytes a month bandwidth. Oh
wow. So I asked him
what browser he was using.
And he was using opera
mini because apparently they compress
images and pages a second
time and he found that
it saved him on bandwidth.
So here's someone 35 miles
South of me who is
the living. What most, most
connected Americans would think is
a, is a primitive lifestyle.
But in fact, there's a
lot of people like that
in your country, whoever you
are listening to this podcast
that are not as connected
as you are. Yeah. That's
a really good point. Cause
whenever people say next billion
users, like you said, people
tend to think of, Oh,
just Africans or something coming
online. They've never seen anything.
So they tend to, I
mean, I know that it
can be easy to have
that mindset, that these are
people who live in very,
very rural areas or people
who like, I don't know,
live in Hudson or something,
which is typically what people
tend to think when they
think of like the average,
poor African person, but the
whole next users thing. Isn't
just about that. I mean,
that is obviously one aspect
of it. People who couldn't
come online before because of
like financial issues or things
like that. But there are
many, many, many different other
people that this whole next
billion users concept covers. So
you have things from, like
you said, people who live
in Western or festivals or
however you want to call
it countries who just couldn't
come online for, I don't
know, logistical reasons like your
brother, for example. And you
could also have people who
couldn't come online because of
accessibility reasons, for example. So
there are a lot of
things, a lot of assistive
technology, which is coming up
now. So screen readers are
getting so much better and
that's enabling people who couldn't
come online because maybe they
have visual impairment or any
other form of difficulties like
that. And that, isn't what
you might think when you
think of Nick a billion
users. But that is, that
is like a category of
people who are just being
able to come online now
because technology has gotten so
much better. So when I
think of next billion users,
I try not to restrict
it to just the people
that are like just around
me that I might be
immediately concerned about. But it's
more about just taking a
global view of who your
users can be. I no
longer just thinking that it
could be the small subset
of people. You have to
just open your mind more
and think about all the
different people that exist in
the world, because pretty much
all of those people are
gonna be able to come
at nine very soon. Exactly.
And if we assume that
everyone, if we'd not none
assume, but if we agree
that everyone deserves to be
online, then if there's small
things that we can do
to, to make their lives
easier, then we should do
those things. For example, I
started, I had met a
number of blind software developers
at Microsoft. And for the
last several years, I always
include alt tags on my,
on my images, on my
blog. And even Twitter now
lets you put an alternative
tag on images when you
post them. Because I saw
someone tweet that as a
blind person, they just scroll
past those things. Like if
I can't see your image
and you didn't bother to
describe it, I'm just going
to ignore your content entirely.
And it doesn't take 10
seconds for me to fix
it. Yeah. That's why I'm
like, we both said the
empathy thing is an important
aspect of it. It's just
about putting yourself in the
position of someone who isn't
having the exact same experience
that you are and I've
had similar experiences like you
as well, like realizing, Oh
you can now put old
texts in your Twitter images.
So that's something that I've
tried to do now as
well. And I always include
all texts in when I'm
writing, like my blog articles.
Yeah. That's, that's a small
thing. So I've heard accessibility
is important. What about local
languages? How important is internationalization
when we're thinking about the
next billion, Hey folks, I
want to take a moment
to thank our sponsors and
remind you that when you
support them, you're supporting Hanselman
it's because they make this
show possible. Innovative developers help
improve the lives of millions
of small businesses and accountants
that use QuickBooks worldwide. Your
app could make the difference
that helps them work smarter
and put more money in
their pocket. Enter Intuit developer
from tech tools to growing
your customer base, to helping
you get funding. Intuit developer
helps your app go from
concept to company, find out
more at intuit.me/code that's I
N T U I t.me/code
Internationalization is also a really
important thing when I'm thinking
about like building on the
global scale. Because as someone
from a primarily English speaking
place, it can be very
easy to just think that
the whole world speaks English.
And especially when like the
U S is an English
speaking place and the U
S tends to dominate a
lot of things online as
well. But particularly through working
at IO, I've kind of
had my eyes opened a
bit more to that because
a lot of the websites
that we do are all
translated and it's just made
me think and made me
much more aware of things
that I typically may not
have thought of. Like something
as simple as making sure
that the site can work,
the languages left to right,
and right to left. Those
are things that, I mean,
I probably haven't really tested
ever before, but now I'm
getting more aware of it
and it doesn't even have
to be as big or
as much work as making
your site work. Both directions,
something as simple as just
in the document title, adding
what language, the document in
goes like a long, long
way. So there are very
simple things that you can
do to improve the site
for someone who isn't like
from an English speaking country.
And it doesn't have to
necessarily be as it doesn't
have to be that big
they're little things to big
things that you can do.
Why is the company that
you're working at now doing
its things localized more than
where you'd worked previously? Well,
because it's more about the
targets. So the company that
I worked with previously that
I said was a media
company in Nigeria, the content
was all English. So we
didn't necessarily need to think
about people viewing from different
countries. And obviously like if
the company had gotten bigger
than that would be more
of a, more of a
pressing issue, but for the
company I work for now,
which their main product is
Adblock plus, and it's used
by like millions of users.
So it's not only English
speaking users that are, are
users of our products. So
we have to think much
more globally. Ah, Okay. How
important we've talked about performance.
We talked about accessibility. We
talked about internationalization, but how
important is another kind of
diversity that we haven't talked
about, which is device diversity?
I have an iPhone. Do
you have an iPhone? Yeah.
Why shouldn't we just define
design only for iPhones? Well,
I mean, that would be
easier if everyone used the
same everyday, if everyone used
the same device, but I
mean, that's just not the
reality and what we're not
building iOS applications, we're building
websites. And if we're going
to build something for the
web, then we have to
build it to work across
different devices. That's just kind
of like the fact of
the web it's always been
open and hopefully always will
be. And if you're going
to build a website, I
think it's just the responsibility
to build it, to work
across various devices. Cause like
I said, if you didn't
want to do that, then
that's where you can just
put like a native application.
Yeah. My, my brother just
upgraded from a, a flip
phone with internet to a
low end. I think it's
$19 Android. I don't even
know the brand, but it's
like just the, the cheapest
Android he could get because
when he wants to watch
YouTube, he goes to the
local cafe and uses their
internet or he goes to
McDonald's and uses their in
it. Cause he won't, he
doesn't want to use his,
take his three gigabytes of,
of data and use it.
So he doesn't, he doesn't
watch videos even on his
phone. So I wonder if
he could even look at
my podcast site, I have
to check to see if
I've designed for his device,
his lower end device. Yeah.
That's a good point. I
mean, it isn't actually that
much work to make the
site work on lower end
devices because that's kind of
how things work out of
the box. It's more things
that we do that change
those things. So if you're
a building just like a
plain static website, then you
won't really need to worry
about all of these things.
But because obviously we're trying
to build some more and
more complex things. We're using
a JavaScript frameworks and all
these new technologies and that's
kind of why we need
to kind of walk back
and think, Oh, how can
we actually get back to
where we started? Which was
just a simple document. Ah,
that's interesting. What, you know,
one thing that I actually
found that, that you might
be interested in about my
podcast, I changed it recently
to a relatively static site,
but when you click on
episodes and look at the
archives, in fact, you get
600 episodes. Cause there's been
a lot of episodes and
the, those episodes have a
face for all 600, even
though you don't look at
all 600 faces when you
hit the page, I was
loading every single one of
them. So that page weight
was 10 megabytes. Whoa, that
is a lot. Yeah, it
was, it seemed like a
good idea at the time.
But then I up cooking
up a, a tool called
application insights and you know,
there's all different kinds of
tools that will do this.
And it basically tests your
website all over the, all
over the earth. And it
said that people in Bangladesh,
it takes almost 30 seconds
to load this page. So
I went and I did
the, did the research and
it turned out, all I
needed to do was put
in some, some JavaScript that
would load those faces when
they enter the viewport. So
when someone scrolls down, then
I open, it made a
huge difference, but I never
would have known unless I
either ask someone with low
bandwidth or had a tool
tell me that it was
a problem. Yeah, exactly. And
it's actually just really simple.
It's really easy to do
those things that result in
really large page sizes. And
that's kind of why, I
don't know, we have a
lot of power with the
web to do all these
things, but we also have
to try as much as
possible to think about what
we're doing and think about
if we're doing things the
right way, which is what
is kind of difficult, right.
Because we have to go
and research and make sure
we're not just like writing
nonsense. I could, I dunno.
Cause like everything to explode,
so yeah. Yeah. But like
you said, there are lots
of really great tools out
there that will help you
along this road. Like you
don't have to necessarily know
everything yourself. So one thing
I would mention that's really
good is lighthouse, which is
now built into Chrome. I
think if you just open
your dev tools, you can
just run a quick analysis
of your page and it
will bring up any things
that are major that are
wrong with your site in
terms of like performance accessibility,
all of that stuff. So
you don't necessarily have to
know all this stuff yourself.
As long as you have
a few tools that you
could use to just know
if you're on the right
track, then that's good enough.
Oh wow. So I had
no idea. So I just
went into my podcast. I
hit F 12 in Chrome
and I clicked on audits,
AUD I T. And there's
a picture of a lighthouse.
And now it says lighthouses
looking to see what your
website's like on a three
G connection. And it's, it's
doing a whole thing. It's
like a 32nd long process.
Yeah. It's actually really amazing.
It was initially built to
kind of test progressive web
apps in particular. Cause it
also tests things like if
there's a service worker there,
it tests, if your application
or your website rather works
when there's no connection at
all. So it tests if
you have like some kind
of caching strategy, but it's
also good. Like I said,
for the other things like
just performance and making sure
you're not doing anything that's
really, really going to be
detrimental. So I would definitely
suggest for any site you
have just try it out.
I mean, it's free, it's
in Chrome and you can
just have a general idea
of where your is. This
is amazing. So I just
finished and it is telling
me that my SEO is
good and then my best
practices are good. But then
under performance it says, it
took almost three seconds for
the first meaningful paint and
it took five seconds before
it was consistently interactive. So
I have some blocking scripts
that I didn't even know
about. Yeah, exactly. So there
are many things that you
might not even be aware
of that always like whenever
I do that, if something
always comes up that I
maybe would have tested before
and I didn't test this
time. So it will definitely
bring up things that you
might not have even thought
of as well. Yeah, this
is great. It also points
out progressive web apps, which
I know that you're an
expert in that is a
way of making my, you
know, my website feel more
like a web app and
it's giving me all sorts
of tips about maybe changing
the address bar and having
a splash screen and prompting
the user to maybe even
add the web app to
their home screen. I had
no idea this existed. Yeah.
It's really amazing. Right. And
because progressive web apps are
getting so powerful, there are
so many more things you
could do. Like you mentioned
things like almost embodying or
having a similar experience to
what a mobile device or
a mobile application is going
to be like. So things
like having like a splash
screen and also what I
mentioned about having some kind
of offline first strategy. So
those things, it will also
bring up and like suggest
like, Oh, these are things
you can do. And it's
actually surprisingly really easy to
set up these things. Like
just having the splash screen,
all you need is like
a single file, which is
called like a manifest file.
And all you have to
do is like to some
icons that you create and
just say, Oh, you want
it to be full screen.
So you want to hide
the address bar when the
user launches the app. And
all of a sudden you
have what looks like a
completely native application. Yeah. This
looks like something that I
could spend just maybe a
few hours on or maybe
a weekend. And I could
take all of these scores
up into the green. Cause
right now it looks like
three out of five are
our orange, which looks like
a, an almost failing grade.
No, it's not failing until
it's red. Okay. Well I
barely, I am orange, then
I'm almost failing, but this
is a way for me
to hit the next billion
users. I want to make
sure that when someone hits
my site anywhere in the
world, on any device, they
have a great experience. Yeah,
exactly. And why also wants
to say is that it
doesn't have to be like
a hundred percent perfect site
that works for everybody in
every single situation. Like, I
don't know how many sites
there are that actually hit
a hundred out of a
hundred on that lighthouse score,
but you don't necessarily have
to get a hundred. You
should just make little improvements
every day. And that's what
I also say about accessibility
because people tend to get
demoralized or I'm not sure
what the word is like
when they hear that, Oh,
they want to make a
site accessible for screen reader,
users under they think, Oh,
they have to do this.
They have to do that.
But one thing that I
always say is that you
don't have to make it
perfect. You just have to
make like a little improvement.
And if someone who like
is using a screen reader,
couldn't like read anything on
your sites yesterday. But then
today you added some image,
all texts. And all of
a sudden, a few things
are more accessible to them.
Like that is still a
really worthwhile improvement to make.
And it's the same thing
for performance and internationalization. It's
just the little things you
do really do make a
difference. So you shouldn't get
discouraged from thinking you need
to have like a hundred
percent score. You just need
to kind of, I don't
know, get one score up
every day. Very true. Very
true. Well, that gives you
just giving me a task
that I'm going to spend
the rest of my afternoon
fixing and I appreciate that.
Oh, great. Fantastic. Thanks so
much for chatting with me
today. No problem. Thanks for
inviting me. Dario, Coon, you
can find her online on
Twitter and on her blog.
This has been another episode
of Hansel minutes and we'll
see you again next year.